W-11417115 salesforce marketing cloud example hl (#2007)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: salesforce-marketing-cloud/3.2/modules/ROOT/pages/salesforce-mktg-connector-examples.adoc

				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
        <logger message="#[payload]" level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"/>
    </flow>
</mule>
----

[[retrieve-list]]
== Retrieve a List

This Mule flow retrieves the ID of a list to use in other operations.

This example uses the following operations: 

* *HTTP Listener* +
Accepts data from HTTP requests
* *Logger* +
Shows the HTTP response from *HTTP Listener*
* *Transform Message* +
Outputs the data in Java
+
----
%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
{
	query: "SELECT ID FROM List WHERE ListName ='" ++ payload.listName ++ "'"
}
----
+
* *Retrieve entities* +
Retrieves objects from the Salesforce Marketing Cloud API web server using an SQL query
+
Enter the following values:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |Value
|Connector Configuration | `Salesforce_Marketing_Cloud_Sfdc_marketing_cloud_config`
|Query| `#[payload.query]`
|===
* *Transform Message* +
Outputs the data in JSON format
+
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload
----

image::salesforce-mktg-retrieve-list.png[Studio Flow for the Retrieve List operation]

=== XML for This Example

> Paste this code into the Studio XML editor to quickly load the flow for this exmple into your Mule app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paste this code into the Studio XML editor to quickly load the flow for this example into your Mule app:
```

. In the *Choose Global Type* dialog, select *Configuration properties* and click *OK*.
. In the *File* field, enter `mule.app.properties`.
. Click *OK*.

[[create-list]]
== Create a List

This Mule flow creates a list for storing subscribers.

[NOTE]
The default value for the List type is `Public`, which makes the list visible to all subscribers. After creating the list, note the list ID to use it in other operations. 

This example uses the following operations:

* *HTTP Listener* +
Accepts data from HTTP requests
* *Logger* +
Shows the HTTP response from *HTTP Listener*
* *Transform Message* +
Outputs the data in Java
+
----
%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
[{

	ListClassification: payload.listClassification,
	ListName: payload.listName,
	"Type": payload.listType
}]
----
+
* *Create entities* +
Creates new objects on the Salesforce Marketing Cloud API web server
+
Enter the following values:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |Value
|Object type | `List`
|Connector Configuration | `Salesforce_Marketing_Cloud_Sfdc_marketing_cloud_config`
|Api objects| `payload`
|===
* *Transform Message* + 
Outputs the data in JSON
+
----
output application/json
---
payload

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

= Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector 3.2 Examples - Mule 4

The following examples show several Mule flows for Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector: 

* <<create-list>>
* <<retrieve-list>> 

== Before You Begin

* Java 8 or 11
* Anypoint Studio 7.5 and later
* Mule runtime engine (Mule) 4.3.0 and later
* DataWeave
//not sure about this one:

> *OAth credentials for Salesforce Marketing Cloud  

Reviewer: yes lets include OAuth credentials for Salesforce Marketing Cloud

== Configure a Connection

To secure connections, you must specify the connection field
values. To do this:

* <<create-config-file, Create a configuration file for a connection.>>
* <<configure-conn, Configure the connection global elements.>>
* <<configure-global, Configure a global element for the properties file.>>

[[create-config-file]]
=== Create a Configuration File for a Connection

Create a configuration file that includes properties for a connection:

. Create a file named `mule-app.properties` in the `/src/main/resources/` folder.
. In the `mule-app.properties` file, create a set of properties for the connection,
similar to the ones that follow, replacing the bracketed text (including the brackets)
with the correct values for your configuration:
+
----
config-with-oauth.clientId=<clientId used to initialize the connection>
config-with-oauth.clientSecret=<clientSecret used to authenticate the user>

> config-with-oauth.soapEndpoint=<SOAP Endpoint address>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
config-with-oauth.soapEndpoint=<SOAP endpoint address>
```

> config-with-oauth.authEndpoint=<Authentication Endpoint>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
config-with-oauth.authEndpoint=<Authentication endpoint>
```

. Add *Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector* to the *Selected modules* section and click *Finish*.
. Click the *Global Elements* tab and click *Create*.
. Select *Connector Configuration > Salesforce Marketing Cloud* and click *OK*.
. Enter the values to configure either Basic Authentication or OAuth Client Credentials.
. Click the *Test Connection* button to ensure there is connectivity with the Salesforce Marketing Cloud API. A successful message should pop up.
. Click *OK*.
. Open the HTTPS Listener config in *Global Element Configuration*.
. Click the *TLS* tab and select TLS Configuration > Edit inline.
. Specify the *Key Store Configuration* with the generated keystore details to enable HTTPS on this configuration.
. Click *OK*.

[[configure-global]]
=== Configure a Global Element for the Properties File

Configure a global element for the `mule-app.properties` file so that Mule knows
where to find it:

. Click the *Global Elements* tab and click *Create*.
. In the *Choose Global Type* dialog, select *Configuration properties* and click *OK*.
. In the *File* field, enter `mule.app.properties`.
. Click *OK*.

[[create-list]]
== Create a List

> This Mule flow creates a list for storing subscribers.

Reviewer: May want to clean up and add this info in this intro sentence too (got this from the demo folder)

For List type, the default value is Public, meaning the list is visible to all subscribers. After creating the list, be sure you note the list id because this will be useful for other operations

This example uses the following operations:

* *HTTP Listener* +
Accepts data from HTTP requests
* *Logger* +

> //check this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shows the HTTP response from *HTTP Listener*
```

> Shows the HTTP response from the *Listener* operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

// from developers: Http Logger shows wire traffic on DEBUG
* *Transform Message* +
Outputs the data in Java
+
----
%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
[{

	ListClassification: payload.listClassification,
	ListName: payload.listName,
	"Type": payload.listType
}]
----
+

> * *Salesforce Marketing Cloud Create entities* +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Create entities* +
```

> Creates new objects on the Marketing Cloud API web server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates new objects on the Salesforce Marketing Cloud API web server
```

+
Enter the following values:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |Value
|Object type | `List`
|Connector Configuration | `Salesforce_Marketing_Cloud_Sfdc_marketing_cloud_config`
|Api objects| `payload`
|===
* *Transform Message* + 

> Outputs the data in JSON format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Outputs the data in JSON
```

	</sfdc-marketing-cloud:config>
    
    <flow name="salesforce-marketing-cloud-oauth-demo-create-list-flow">
        <http:listener path="/create-list" doc:name="HTTP" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config"/>
        <logger message="#[payload]" level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"/>
        <ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message" doc:id="fab54a8d-4f2d-45cf-9496-9d407bf5837f" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
[{

	ListClassification: payload.listClassification,
	ListName: payload.listName,
	"Type": payload.listType
}]]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
        <sfdc-marketing-cloud:create config-ref="Salesforce_Marketing_Cloud_Sfdc_marketing_cloud_config" objectType="List" doc:name="Salesforce Marketing Cloud"/>
        <ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message" doc:id="a61ae2f3-0821-4884-9a4c-2306071c7ec8" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
        <logger message="#[payload]" level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"/>
    </flow>
</mule>
----

[[retrieve-list]]
== Retrieve a List

> This Mule flow retrieves the ID of a list to be used in other operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Mule flow retrieves the ID of a list to use in other operations.
```

> This example uses the following operations: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses the following operations: 

```

* *HTTP Listener* +
Accepts data from HTTP requests
* *Logger* +
//check this

> Shows the HTTP response from the *Retrieve entities* operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shows the HTTP response from *HTTP Listener*
```

* *Transform Message* +
Outputs the data in Java
+
----
%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
{
	query: "SELECT ID FROM List WHERE ListName ='" ++ payload.listName ++ "'"
}
----
+

> * *Salesforce Marketing Cloud Retrieve entities* +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Retrieve entities* +
```

> Retrieves objects from the Marketing Cloud API web server in a SQL query-like fashion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves objects from the Salesforce Marketing Cloud API web server using an SQL query
```

+
Enter the following values:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |Value
|Connector Configuration | `Salesforce_Marketing_Cloud_Sfdc_marketing_cloud_config`
|Query| `#[payload.query]`
|===
* *Transform Message* +
Outputs the data in JSON format
+
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload
----
+

image::salesforce-mktg-retrieve-list.png[Studio Flow for the Retrieve List operation]

> ===XML for This Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== XML for This Example
```

= Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector 3.2 Examples - Mule 4

The following examples show several Mule flows for Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector: 

* <<create-list>>
* <<retrieve-list>> 

== Before You Begin

* Java 8 or 11
* Anypoint Studio 7.5 and later
* Mule runtime engine (Mule) 4.3.0 and later
* DataWeave

> *OAth credentials for Salesforce Marketing Cloud  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* OAuth credentials for Salesforce Marketing Cloud  
```

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: Lets move this note to right under line 81

> The default value for List type is Public, which makes the list visible to all subscribers. Also, note the list  ID for other operations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default value for the List type is `Public`, which makes the list visible to all subscribers. After creating the list, note the list ID to use it in other operations. 
```

. Enter the values to configure either Basic Authentication or OAuth Client Credentials.
. Click the *Test Connection* button to ensure there is connectivity with the Salesforce Marketing Cloud API. A successful message should pop up.
. Click *OK*.
. Open the HTTPS Listener config in *Global Element Configuration*.
. Click the *TLS* tab and select TLS Configuration > Edit inline.
. Specify the *Key Store Configuration* with the generated keystore details to enable HTTPS on this configuration.
. Click *OK*.

[[configure-global]]
=== Configure a Global Element for the Properties File

Configure a global element for the `mule-app.properties` file so that Mule knows
where to find it:

. Click the *Global Elements* tab and click *Create*.
. In the *Choose Global Type* dialog, select *Configuration properties* and click *OK*.
. In the *File* field, enter `mule.app.properties`.
. Click *OK*.

[[create-list]]
== Create a List

This Mule flow creates a list for storing subscribers.

This example uses the following operations:

* *HTTP Listener* +
Accepts data from HTTP requests
* *Logger* +
Shows the HTTP response from *HTTP Listener*

> // from developers: Http Logger shows wire traffic on DEBUG

Reviewer: let's remove the comments

        <logger message="#[payload]" level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"/>
        <ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message" doc:id="fab54a8d-4f2d-45cf-9496-9d407bf5837f" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
[{

	ListClassification: payload.listClassification,
	ListName: payload.listName,
	"Type": payload.listType
}]]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
        <sfdc-marketing-cloud:create config-ref="Salesforce_Marketing_Cloud_Sfdc_marketing_cloud_config" objectType="List" doc:name="Salesforce Marketing Cloud"/>
        <ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message" doc:id="a61ae2f3-0821-4884-9a4c-2306071c7ec8" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
        <logger message="#[payload]" level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"/>
    </flow>
</mule>
----

[[retrieve-list]]
== Retrieve a List

This Mule flow retrieves the ID of a list to use in other operations.

This example uses the following operations: 

* *HTTP Listener* +
Accepts data from HTTP requests
* *Logger* +

> //check this

Reviewer: remove this comment as well
